Here are the 23 Democrats who are running for president

Washington (CNN)The 2020 Democratic nominating contest is well underway, with nearly two dozen Democrats who have thrown their hats into the ring.

Here's an updated look of who's in and who's out. We're going to keep updating this list through the campaign season as candidates announce their intentions or drop their bids.
For the latest 2020 election news, check out CNN's full coverage.
Announced campaigns
Sen. Michael Bennet
AGE: 54
STATE: Colorado
KNOWN FOR: Bennet, the former superintendent of Denver Public Schools, was forced to hold off on entering the race following a diagnosis and subsequent treatment of prostate cancer in April. Having served in the Senate since 2009, Bennet has pitched himself in pre-campaign appearances and speeches as a pragmatic lawmaker who has a progressive voting record.

Former Vice President Joe Biden
AGE: 76
STATE: Delaware
KNOWN FOR: Biden's long-anticipated announcement marks his third presidential campaign after he passed on a 2016 run. His name recognition, decades of experience and ties to former President Barack Obama are seen as his greatest assets. But his track record on -- and public response to -- making some women uncomfortable with his behavior could be an obstacle to gaining modern voters, some of whom may also think that the party needs new, more diverse representation.

New York Mayor Bill de Blasio
AGE: 58
STATE: New York
KNOWN FOR: The two-term New York mayor has enjoyed success on several largely progressive issues such as universal pre-K, raising the minimum wage and a low murder rate during his tenure. But he will likely have to face his home state's famously aggressive press corps, which is expected to follow him on the trail, as he seeks to establish his identity as a national candidate.

Sen. Cory Booker
AGE: 50
STATE: New Jersey
KNOWN FOR: Booker, who boasts a Twitter following of more than 4 million people, gained national recognition during his tenure as Newark's mayor, at times answering pleas to shovel residents out after major snowstorms.

Gov. Steve Bullock
AGE: 53
STATE: Montana
KNOWN FOR: Bullock, who served as Montana's attorney general before being elected governor in 2012, plans to lean heavily into his success in winning over Trump voters. During his re-election in 2016, he won by 4% at the same time Trump won Montana by more than 20%. His announcement video highlighted his successful efforts to expand Medicaid, his support for gay marriage and his bipartisan effort to ban dark money from the state's politics.

South Bend Mayor Pete Buttigieg
AGE: 37
STATE: Indiana
KNOWN FOR: Known locally in South Bend, Indiana, as "Mayor Pete," Buttigieg served as a naval officer in Afghanistan. Buttigieg, though a long shot, would be the youngest and first married gay president if elected. He would also be the first candidate to go from the mayor's office to the presidency.


Former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Julián Castro
AGE: 44
STATE: Texas
KNOWN FOR: The son of a Chicana activist, Castro served as mayor of San Antonio in 2009, focusing on education initiatives. Castro is currently the only Latino in the 2020 field.

Former Maryland Rep. John Delaney
AGE: 56
STATE: Maryland
KNOWN FOR: A self-made businessman, Delaney at one point was the youngest CEO on the New York Stock Exchange. Delaney has been running the longest -- he declared his candidacy in July 2017 -- but is still working to gain name recognition.

Rep. Tulsi Gabbard
AGE: 38
STATE: Hawaii
KNOWN FOR: Gabbard is the first American Samoan and the first Hindu member of Congress, and brings her experience as an Iraq War veteran to the House Armed Services Committee. But she will have to overcome obstacles both old and new, including recent internal campaign turmoil and her controversial secret meeting with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in 2017.


Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand
AGE: 52
STATE: New York
KNOWN FOR: Gillibrand campaigned as a child with her grandmother Dorthea Noonan, a longtime president of the Albany Democratic Women's Club. The New York Democrat called for former Sen. Al Franken to resign and has acknowledged her increasingly progressive stances on immigration and gun reform running counter to previous positions she held running for the House.

Sen. Kamala Harris
AGE: 54
STATE: California
KNOWN FOR: Harris is the daughter of Jamaican and Indian immigrants and grew up attending both a Baptist church and a Hindu temple. Her progressive stances supporting Medicare-for-all and marijuana legalization could clash with her law and order history as a former California state attorney general, including her previous support of reporting arrested undocumented juveniles to ICE.

Gov. Jay Inslee
AGE: 68
STATE: Washington
KNOWN FOR: Inslee, who has held elected office for much of the last three decades, has been an outspoken progressive executive since he became governor in 2013. He has been a vocal opponent of President Donald Trump, including suing the President after he tried to ban immigration from several Muslim-majority countries. Now, Inslee is running as the climate change candidate.

Sen. Amy Klobuchar
AGE: 59
STATE: Minnesota
KNOWN FOR: Klobuchar announced her run outdoors as it snowed, which she tied to her commitment to a "homegrown" campaign with "grit." The Minnesota moderate is looking to work across the aisle and win back fellow working class midwesterners.

Miramar Mayor Wayne Messam
AGE: 45
STATE: Florida
KNOWN FOR: The child of Jamaican immigrants, Messam is a first-generation American who holds progressive views on immigration, guns and the environment. He was part of a group that sued the state of Florida in 2018 over a law that restricted his ability to create municipal gun regulations after he wanted a new amphitheater in his city to be a "gun-free venue."

Rep. Seth Moulton
AGE: 40
STATE: Massachusetts
KNOWN FOR: Moulton, a Marine Corps veteran, raised his national profile after trying and failing to prevent Rep. Nancy Pelosi from reclaiming the speaker's gavel. He later voted for her after Democrats retook the House last year. Moulton's longshot bid is expected to focus heavily on veterans' issues and national security. If elected, he would be the youngest president in American history.

Former Rep. Beto O'Rourke
AGE: 46
STATE: Texas
KNOWN FOR: O'Rourke, a rising star in the Democratic Party, ran unsuccessfully for a Senate seat in 2018 while serving his third term in the House. With roots in El Paso, O'Rourke gained national attention during his Senate race when a video of him answering a question about NFL players kneeling during the National Anthem went viral. He made an off-the-cuff riff about the civil rights movement as he defended players for making their case "nonviolently, peacefully, while the eyes of this country are watching."

Rep. Tim Ryan
AGE: 46
STATE: Ohio
KNOWN FOR: Ryan, whose district includes Youngstown, Ohio, enters the presidential race as a longshot candidate with less name recognition than most candidates and a far smaller political network. He has become most known in Democratic circles for his opposition to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi retaining her leadership positions, though he later voted for her when Democrats elected her speaker earlier this year.

Sen. Bernie Sanders
AGE: 77
STATE: Vermont
KNOWN FOR: Sanders' democratic socialist platform gained significant traction during the 2016 primaries, when the independent senator who caucuses with Democrats ran against Hillary Clinton. His policy agenda includes various progressive proposals, many of which have been embraced by the Democratic Party, like expanding health care, broadening the social safety net and making higher education free.

Former Rep. Joe Sestak
AGE: 67
STATE: Pennsylvania
KNOWN FOR: Sestak ascended to become a 3-star admiral in the US Navy during a 31-year military career prior to his election to the House of Representatives in 2006. He represented Pennsylvania's 7th District until mounting a pair of ultimately unsuccessful campaigns for the Senate in 2010 and 2016, respectively.

Billionaire Tom Steyer
AGE: 62
STATE: California
KNOWN FOR: Steyer, whose net worth reached $1.6 billion this year according to Forbes, has operated as a funding force in Democratic politics in recent years, bankrolling candidates and organizations that promote liberal causes, including the impeachment of Trump. The 2018 House races marked the third consecutive election cycle in which Steyer spent more than $100 million supporting Democratic candidates.

Sen. Elizabeth Warren
AGE: 70
STATE: Massachusetts
KNOWN FOR: Warren was appointed as assistant to President Barack Obama and special adviser to the Treasury secretary in order to launch the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. She was also appointed to a congressional oversight panel overseeing the $700 billion Trouble Assets Relief Program that was passed in response to the 2008 financial crisis.

Spiritual author Marianne Williamson
AGE: 67
STATE: Texas
KNOWN FOR: Williamson is best known for being a spiritual counselor to Oprah Winfrey and has written several best-selling books, including her debut "A Return to Love." She is calling for "a moral and spiritual awakening in the country" with her campaign.

Businessman Andrew Yang
AGE: 44
STATE: New York
KNOWN FOR: Yang is an entrepreneur who launched Venture for America, a fellowship program that aims to connect recent grads with startups. He wants to give all Americans a universal basic income of $1,000 per month to address economic inequality.

“We cannot be the first generation to leave less to our kids, not more. That's why I'm running for President. Let's build opportunity for every American and restore integrity to our government.”

A moderate Democrat known for seeking compromise.

Is best known for being a part of the so-called Gang of Eight, a bipartisan group that crafted a comprehensive immigration reform bill in 2013.

Announced in early April that he had prostate cancer, but has since had surgery that his staff called “completely successful.”

SIGNATURE ISSUES: Has called for modernizing the economy in fields like artificial intelligence and increasing infrastructure spending.

Biden in 2020? Allies Say He Sees Himself as Democrats’ Best Hope

WASHINGTON — Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. is in the final stages of deciding whether to run for president and has told allies he is skeptical the other Democrats eyeing the White House can defeat President Trump, an assessment that foreshadows a clash between the veteran Washington insider and the more liberal and fresh-faced contenders for the party’s 2020 nomination.

Many Democratic voters, and nearly all major Democratic donors, are keenly interested in Mr. Biden’s plans because of their consuming focus on finding a candidate who can beat a president they believe represents a threat to American democracy. But there is also a rising demand in the party for a more progressive standard-bearer who reflects the increasingly diverse Democratic coalition.

Mr. Biden would instantly be the early front-runner if he ran, but he would have to bridge divides in a primary that would test whether Democrats are willing to embrace a moderate white man in his 70s if they view him as the best bet to oust Mr. Trump.

“He has the best chance of beating Trump, hands down,” said Senator Tom Carper of Delaware, Mr. Biden’s longtime friend and former colleague. “On a scale of one to 10, that’s probably about a 12 for us.”

Yet Mr. Biden’s skepticism about the field could alienate female and minority voters who are excited that several women and African-Americans are expected to run. Nominating a white man may also roil some Democrats who are already torn about whether a woman could win in 2020 after Hillary Clinton’s loss. And Mr. Biden’s preoccupation with winning back blue-collar Midwestern whites could place him at odds with Democrats who see greater potential for growth in the highly educated suburbs and across the booming Sun Belt and upper South.

More broadly, debate around Mr. Biden’s possible candidacy illustrates the dueling visions in the party and particularly the divisions between its pragmatic and liberal wing. Some Democrats are skeptical that a relatively moderate candidate like Mr. Biden, who has baggage like supporting the 1990s crime bill that is loathed on the left, would prevail in the primary with a message of unity and national healing rather than the fiery and uncompromising brand of populism that Democratic primary voters elevated in the midterm elections.

“In 2020, Biden-style centrism will become a toxic and losing brand of politics in Democratic primaries,” said Waleed Shahid, a left-wing activist.

[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]

The 76-year-old former vice president, who leads the field in initial national and Iowa polls, has not yet told his allies that he has decided to run. And they emphasize that Mr. Biden’s decision will not be final until he says it for himself, noting that family considerations are central. Mr. Biden sought the presidency twice before but he has also considered it at least as many times before bowing out.

But Mr. Biden has indicated that he is leaning toward running and will most likely make a decision within the next two weeks, according to Democrats within and beyond his inner circle who have spoken to him recently.

The former vice president told a senior Democratic official last week that he is both likely to run and that his aides have told him he must move quickly in this primary, according to two Democrats briefed on the conversation.

Mr. Biden is under significant pressure from his party’s major donors to make up his mind — no later than the end of January — or risk watching them migrate to other candidates. Mr. Biden and his advisers are highly sensitive to the criticism that in 2015, he dragged out his decision before ultimately opting out of the Democratic primary, exasperating his supporters and undermining the Democratic front-runner, Mrs. Clinton, in the process.

He spent some of his Christmas vacation in the Virgin Islands calling and texting his would-be supporters and is using this week to hold private meetings in Washington with Democratic officials.

In one of his calls over the holidays, Mr. Biden repeated a variation of a line he has used publicly: “If you can persuade me there is somebody better who can win, I’m happy not to do it,” he said, according to the Democrat he spoke to, who shared the conversation on condition of anonymity to discuss a private talk.

But then Mr. Biden said something he has not stated so bluntly in public: “But I don’t see the candidate who can clearly do what has to be done to win.”

In another possible sign that he is preparing to ramp up, an emissary from Mr. Biden recently reached out to James Smith, the Democratic Party nominee for governor in South Carolina last year, about scheduling a call with the former vice president. Mr. Smith, a state legislator and friend of Mr. Biden, said the former vice president could count on an enthusiastic reception in South Carolina if he were to run.

“In the circles that I move, I think there’s almost unanimity of support for him,” Mr. Smith said.

But Mr. Smith acknowledged that in Mr. Biden’s absence, others were making moves in South Carolina. Mr. Smith said that after his defeat in November, he had heard from several contenders, including Senators Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kamala Harris of California and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts — none of whom, he said, could count on scooping up Mr. Biden’s network.

The entry of Mr. Biden would immediately upend the still-nascent primary: Ms. Warren joined the race last week and three dozen other Democrats are considering it. Mr. Biden could crowd out other establishment-aligned contenders like former Mayor Mitch Landrieu of New Orleans and former Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia, given that Mr. Biden’s donor base and supporters may overlap with some of their own. And Mr. Biden’s allies are themselves mindful of another Democrat whose blue-collar credentials could pose a challenge to their own coalition: Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio.

[With Elizabeth Warren visit, Iowans get the first taste of 2020.]

Most of all, a Biden candidacy would also frame the primary around the question of whether Democrats prefer a familiar face and steady continuum of former President Barack Obama’s center-left politics, or a generational change and turn to a more liberal, confrontational approach to Mr. Trump and the right.

Mr. Biden’s supporters argue that Mr. Trump’s incendiary conduct and norm-breaking presidency have so imperiled the country that only somebody with the stature and experience of a two-term vice president can bring back stability. And, they contend, Mr. Trump has diminished the importance of ideological differences within the Democratic Party.

“Variations in policy positions don’t really matter because, to paraphrase the president, we are in a national emergency — but the national emergency is him,” said Lou Frillman, who was a major fund-raising bundler for Mr. Obama’s campaigns and is close to Mr. Biden. “The vice president has all the qualities necessary to win, and I think he has all the qualities the country is going to so desperately need to bring us back from the edge.”

Most of all, Mr. Biden’s allies contend, he would be the Democrat most likely to reclaim the battleground state voters who abandoned the party in 2016.

“If you look at Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania, the labor folks who voted for Trump, they love him,” former Gov. Jack Markell of Delaware said of Mr. Biden. “He has a connection with these people.”

Mr. Biden’s enthusiasts are also quick to note that he is not just popular with white working-class voters, but is also well-liked among African-Americans and millennials.

Mr. Biden has led in national and early-state polling, drawing about a third of the vote, enough to make him a solid but not overwhelming front-runner at a moment when such surveys are heavily dependent on name identification. He is viewed favorably by the vast majority of Democrats, but some surveys indicate Democrats want fresh faces and new leadership.

Mr. Biden would portray himself as a progressive, embracing priorities like free public college tuition and expanding health care, advisers say. But he would also make the case that his 36 years in the Senate and eight years as vice president make him the best qualified to repair the damage they believe Mr. Trump has done at home and abroad.

“This is a guy who actually gets along with Mitch McConnell and a number of other Republicans,” said Mr. Carper, invoking the Senate majority leader with whom Mr. Biden worked closely to negotiate a handful of agreements in the Obama years.

Yet the preferences of the party’s donor class and an ability to work in a bipartisan fashion are hardly alluring to the party’s increasingly liberal grass-roots activists and voters. And the candidacy of a Washington Democrat who fondly recalls his relationships with conservatives, and even used his speech bowing out of the 2016 race to make the case that Republicans are the opposition but not the enemy, may be ill-suited for the Trump era.

“We are at a time when we have a combative racist and often unhinged person in the White House, and that’s not going to be answered with somebody who says: Let’s come together and let’s heal and let’s all be gentle souls,” said Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington, who supported Senator Bernie Sanders for president in 2016.

Part of Mr. Biden’s challenge would be what he represents as a septuagenarian who came of age in a consensus-oriented Senate dominated by white men, some of them segregationists, a political milieu as distant to millennial Democrats as the Civil War.

Should he run, Mr. Biden would quite likely face multiple major black candidates and no fewer than three prominent women. After the Democratic base elevated diversity to a first priority in the midterm elections, Mr. Biden would have little to offer voters determined to change the face of the presidency.

He would be counting, instead, on Democrats embracing a candidate from an ideologically and culturally traditional caste as an expedient for defeating Mr. Trump.

Perhaps just as daunting, Mr. Biden would have to answer for a political record stretching back nearly half a century. He has never faced the level of criticism from his fellow Democrats that he would earn as a leading candidate for president.

Mr. Biden has steadfastly supported important liberal priorities over the years, including gun control and labor rights, but he was also a loyal ally of the credit card industry as a senator from Delaware and backed a crime bill in the 1990s that is now seen by liberals as having forged a generation of mass incarceration.

In 1991, as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, Mr. Biden presided over the confirmation hearings of Justice Clarence Thomas, including the interrogation of Anita Hill by a panel of all-white and all-male senators. And in 2002, he voted to authorize the invasion of Iraq.

But he has said before that he is not alarmed about the indignity of ending his storied career by losing a primary.

Invoking the 2015 death of his eldest son, Beau, Mr. Biden wrote in his book “Promise Me, Dad” that he understood “the difference between an electoral loss and real loss.”

“If we give Donald Trump eight years in the White House, he will forever and fundamentally alter the character of this nation, who we are, and I cannot stand by and watch that happen.”

Has run for president twice before.

Is among the best-liked figures in the Democratic Party, known for his down-to-earth personality and his ability to connect with working-class voters.

Regards 2020 as his last chance to run for president.

SIGNATURE ISSUES: Restoring America’s standing on the global stage; strengthening economic protections for low-income workers in industries like manufacturing and fast food.

“I believe that we can build a country where no one is forgotten, no one is left behind … where we see the faces of our leaders on television and feel pride, not shame.”

Would be one of the most gifted orators in the field, running on a politics of uplift that could recall President Obama’s 2008 campaign.

Enjoys a vast fund-raising base, thanks to longstanding connections to donors around the country.

SIGNATURE ISSUES: Has been one of the leaders in the Senate on criminal justice reform, but his appeal would most likely center on his call to unify the country.

“We need to defeat Donald Trump in 2020 and defeat the corrupt system that lets campaign money drown out the people’s voice, so we can finally make good on the promise of fair shot for everyone.”

Democratic governor of a state that Mr. Trump easily won in 2016.

Known as a pragmatist who was able to win Republican support for liberal priorities.

Came out in favor of an assault weapons ban, despite overseeing a state that prizes hunting.

SIGNATURE ISSUES: Expected to make campaign finance reform a priority, while also pushing early childhood education and other policies aimed at reducing economic inequality.

“Running for office is an act of hope. You don’t do it unless you think the pulleys and levers of our government can be used and if necessary redesigned to make the life of this nation better for us all.”

Began to draw national notice after delivering an essay that counseled Democrats on how to recover from their defeats in the 2016 elections.

Has embarked on a long-shot campaign that may test the appeal of a youthful profile over more traditional qualifications.

SIGNATURE ISSUES: Has stressed his generational identity and called for policies on issues like climate change and economic opportunity.

Opted out of challenging Senator Ted Cruz for the Senate in the 2018 midterm elections.

Once a rising political star, has struggled to find a role during the Trump administration.

Money could be an issue, especially if former Representative Beto O’Rourke, a small donor magnet, also mounts a bid.

SIGNATURE ISSUES: Has emphasized a platform of universal prekindergarten, “Medicare for all” and immigration reform.

“I’m running for president because it’s time for new leadership. Because it’s time for new energy.”

Could credibly make the case that he has fused liberal policy feats like universal prekindergarten with falling crime and a sturdy economy.

Past forays into national politics, like a progressive nonprofit and a halting endorsement of Hillary Clinton, have ended in disaster.

SIGNATURE ISSUES: Is likely to run on his signature prekindergarten program and the city’s low crime rate.

“As president, I will take on the wealthy. I will take on the big corporations. I will not rest until this government serves working people.”

“There are a lot of challenges that are facing the American people that I’m concerned about and that I want to help solve.”